1:   The hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-mediated signaling pathway is an adaptive and protective mechanism that is triggered by hypoxia, ischemia, and other pathophysiological conditions.
2:   The expression of HIF-1α and downstream genes, some of which are pro-apoptotic whereas others are pro-survival, is up-regulated in ischemic stroke.
3:   Interestingly, however, the effects of HIF-1α activation are different in the early and late stages of acute cerebral ischemia, and these differences may depend on the duration and severity of hypoxia.
4:   Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the effect of HIF-1α activation in chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, which plays an important role in the development of dementia.
5:   Permanent bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2VO) was used to induce chronic global cerebral hypoperfusion in rats.
6:   The expression of HIF-1α protein and the transcription of downstream genes were measured at different time points, including 0 h, 12 h, 24 h, 3 days, 7 days, 14 days, 28 days, 42 days, and 56 days after 2VO.
7:   HIF-1α increased as early as 12 h after the occlusion and remained high for at least 56 days.
8:   Interestingly, mRNA levels of both pro-apoptotic (Bcl-2/adenovirus EIB 19 kDa-interacting protein 3, NADPH oxidase activator 1, and NIP3-like protein X) and pro-survival (vascular endothelial growth factor, glucose transporter-1) genes were up-regulated at the early stage after 2VO, followed by a gradual decline to baseline/control levels.
9:   Thus, HIF-1α increased consistently during chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, whereas both pro-apoptotic and pro-survival downstream genes were up-regulated only early after 2VO.
10:   This mismatch in gene expression may contribute to the lack of a protective effect of highly expressed HIF-1α during the chronic stage of cerebral hypoperfusion.
--------------------
1:   We demonstrated that glyphosate possesses tumor promoting potential in mouse skin carcinogenesis and SOD 1, calcyclin (S100A6), and calgranulin B (S100A9) have been associated with this potential, although the mechanism is unclear.
2:   We aimed to clarify whether imbalance in between [Ca(2+)] i levels and oxidative stress is associated with glyphosate-induced proliferation in human keratinocytes HaCaT cells.
3:   The [Ca(2+)] i levels, ROS generation, and expressions of G1/S cyclins, IP3R1, S100A6, S100A9, and SOD 1, and apoptosis-related proteins were investigated upon glyphosate exposure in HaCaT cells.
4:   Glyphosate (0.1 mM) significantly induced proliferation, decreases [Ca(2+)] i , and increases ROS generation in HaCaT cells, whereas antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) pretreatment reverts these effects which directly indicated that glyphosate induced cell proliferation by lowering [Ca(2+)] i levels via ROS generation.
5:   Glyphosate also enhanced the expression of G1/S cyclins associated with a sharp decrease in G0/G1 and a corresponding increase in S-phases.
6:   Additionally, glyphosate also triggers S100A6/S100A9 expression and decreases IP3R1 and SOD 1 expressions in HaCaT cells.
7:   Notably, Ca(2+) suppression also prevented apoptotic related events including Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and caspases activation.
8:   This study highlights that glyphosate promotes proliferation in HaCaT cells probably by disrupting the balance in between [Ca(2+)] i levels and oxidative stress which in turn facilitated the downregulation of mitochondrial apoptotic signaling pathways.
--------------------
